[audio playing ...]
I had just had my first baby, when the
my done. Revolution of Dignity began in
2014. There were months of very high
emotional protests, the whole society
mobilized.
The government has started to change the
orientation of our politics, from
European values back to that of the
Russian Union. Hundreds of 1000s on the
streets protested loudly, that we do not
want this Russian jail in our country.
Ukraine was one of the first ever
countries to draft the Constitution over
300 years ago. So we have this roots. We
were fighting for more than just to be
European country. It was time to claim
our identity, our subjectivity.
I was there in winter, with minus 12
minus 20. With my brown, and a very huge
pro Ukrainian spirit.
The government responded with cruelty.
Many were beaten, a lot of blood.
More than 100 people were killed.
They paid the price for our freedom with
the price for our dignity.
Then the Russian invasion began in the
regions of the net Luhansk and Crimea.
And mothers, like loot via the diva
found strength resist.
Crimean guitars have a low history of
repression, and the great story of my
family is connected with the question of
fear and exile. I was born in
Uzbekistan, because my grandparents were
deported in 1944. And my great great
grandparents also lived in exile during
the Russian Empire. Now my generation is
facing the same thing.
In 2014, I was in my ninth month of
pregnancy, waiting for my fourth child
to be born. I have never in my life,
seen so many units of military
machinery, tanks, vehicles, airplanes,
flying above our heads, so many people
with military uniforms. I was already in
the hospital. And from my window, I
could see man trying to enter the chief
physician step out in front of the
soldiers saying, there are ladies here,
and they are about to give birth. If
anything happens to them, you will
regret it. This was a man without any
weapons, and he was standing up for us.
I was terrified. Everyone was expecting
that the global community would react
that sanctions would be introduced and
declarations would be made. But nothing
happened. And the Russian soldiers
remained in Crimea. When I gave birth,
the nurse said to me, your three oldest
children will be citizens of Ukraine and
your youngest child, a citizen of the
Russian Federation. It was just a
sentence spoken by a regular woman. But
it struck me, I realized that something
had happened in front of my eyes. Russia
introduced laws in Crimea that allowed
them to begin the repression machine.
And the mass arrest started. A very good
friend of mine told me about the search
in your house, how at 5am they were
woken up by the sound, the window
smashing, and last bullying on the
children, uniform man entering with
machine guards, I can still remember how
many emotions were in your voice, the
fear and hysteria. That's when I
realized that this horrific situation
was already knocking at the doors of
people I knew. And I decided to do
something about it. The first thing that
crossed my mind was that I could write
about the events happening and human
rights abuses to be the voice of my
people saying that we are not
terrorists, that there are people in
detention centers, teachers, doctors,
entrepreneurs, artists, and they have
one thing in common, they did no harm. I
wanted to tell the truth. It was the
call of my heart, my voluntary decision.
This is how the phenomenon of writers
like me emerged. City journalist taking
responsibility to speak about the dark
side of the
Ramadan head started when I was
arrested. I was carrying bags with food
when two cars stuck next to me. Unknown
Men with balaclavas ran out and
surrounded me. They took me to a police
department two hours away. For seven
hours. I was surrounded by these men. I
remained silent because I didn't trust
them. And I knew for sure they would
torture in journalists.
The next day there was a court hearing,
they decided I was guilty. And I had to
pay a small sum of 2000 rubles. I was
not surprised at all. It's a way to show
activists that law enforcement is
watching you. And what will follow is a
criminal case in prison. It is a signal
for you to decide if you want to go on
or stop and live. That means fewer. They
wanted to make me scared, but it was
exactly the other way around. Surviving
this meant I overcame my fear. I became
strong enough to stay in Crimea and own
right in
the past reflected on my present and
that gave me the strength to fight.
The teach to love war,
to not remember tragedy,
to not pray for the souls of the
unfortunates
to not preserve this fragile peace. They
teach to love war, to be happy that it
took place to wear a military uniform,
to be proud some debt
to organize a holiday.
He my great grandfather
his gardens were here.
Now there are the parades of an ailing
country.